---
title: "4.3.3"
date:
draft: false
weight: 93
---

Crunchy Data announces the release of the [PostgreSQL Operator](https://www.crunchydata.com/products/crunchy-postgresql-operator/) 4.3.3 on August 17, 2020.

The PostgreSQL Operator is released in conjunction with the [Crunchy Container Suite](https://github.com/CrunchyData/crunchy-containers/).

The PostgreSQL Operator 4.3.3 release includes the following software versions upgrades:

- The PostgreSQL containers now use versions 12.4, 11.9, 10.14, 9.6.19, and 9.5.23
- pgBouncer is now at version 1.14.

PostgreSQL Operator is tested with Kubernetes 1.13 - 1.18, OpenShift 3.11+, OpenShift 4.3+, Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), and VMware Enterprise PKS 1.3+.


## Changes

- Perform a `pg_dump` from a specific database using the `--database` flag when using `pgo backup` with `--backup-type=pgdump`.
- Restore a `pg_dump` to a specific database using the `--pgdump-database` flag using `pgo restore` when `--backup-type=pgdump` is specified.
- Add the `--client` flag to `pgo version` to output the client version of `pgo`.
- The PostgreSQL cluster scope is now utilized to identify and sync the ConfigMap responsible for the DCS for a PostgreSQL cluster.
- The `PGMONITOR_PASSWORD` is now populated by an environmental variable secret. This environmental variable is only set on a primary instance as it is only needed at the time a PostgreSQL cluster is initialized.
- Remove "Operator Start Time" from `pgo status` as it is more convenient and accurate to get this information from `kubectl` and the like, and it was not working due to RBAC privileges. (Reported by @mw-0).
- `pgo-rmdata` container no longer runs as the `root` user, but as `daemon` (UID 2)
- Remove dependency on the `expenv` binary that was included in the PostgreSQL Operator release. All `expenv` calls were either replaced with the native `envsubst` program or removed.

## Fixes

- Add validation to ensure that limits for CPU/memory are greater-than-or-equal-to the requests. This applies to any command that can set a limit/request.
- Ensure WAL archives are pushed to all repositories when pgBackRest is set to use both a local and a S3-based repository
- Silence expected error conditions when a pgBackRest repository is being initialized.
- Add the `watch` permissions to the `pgo-deployer` ServiceAccount.
- Ensure `client-setup.sh` works with when there is an existing `pgo` client in the install path
- Ensure the PostgreSQL Operator can be uninstalled by adding `list` verb ClusterRole privileges to several Kubernetes objects.
- Bring up the correct number of pgBouncer replicas when `pgo update cluster --startup` is issued.
- Fixed issue where `pgo scale` would not work after `pgo update cluster --shutdown` and `pgo update cluster --startup` were run.
- Ensure `pgo scaledown` deletes external WAL volumes from the replica that is removed.
- Fix for PostgreSQL cluster startup logic when performing a restore.
- Do not consider non-running Pods as primary Pods when checking for multiple primaries (Reported by @djcooklup).
- Fix race condition that could occur while `pgo upgrade` was running while a HA configuration map attempted to sync. (Reported by Paul Heinen @v3nturetheworld).
- Silence "ConfigMap not found" error messages that occurred during PostgreSQL cluster initialization, as these were not real errors.
- Fix an issue with controller processing, which could manifest in PostgreSQL clusters not being deleted.
- Eliminate `gcc` from the `postgres-ha` and `pgadmin4` containers.
- Fix `pgo label` when applying multiple labels at once.
