---
title: "4.4.2"
date:
draft: false
weight: 78
---

Crunchy Data announces the release of the [PostgreSQL Operator](https://www.crunchydata.com/products/crunchy-postgresql-operator/) 4.4.1 on November 25, 2020.

The PostgreSQL Operator is released in conjunction with the [Crunchy Container Suite](https://github.com/CrunchyData/crunchy-containers/).

The PostgreSQL Operator 4.4.2 release includes the following software versions upgrades:

- The PostgreSQL containers now use versions 12.5, 11.10, 10.15, 9.6.20, and 9.5.24

PostgreSQL Operator is tested with Kubernetes 1.13 - 1.18, OpenShift 3.11+, OpenShift 4.3+, Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), and VMware Enterprise PKS 1.3+.

## Fixes

- Proper determination if a `pgcluster` custom resource creation has been processed by its corresponding Postgres Operator controller. This prevents the custom resource from being run by the creation logic multiple times.
- The `pgo scaledown` now allows for the removal of replicas that are not actively running.
- The `pgo scaledown --query` command now shows replicas that may not be in an active state.
- Fix readiness check for a standby leader. Previously, the standby leader would not report as ready, even though it was. Reported by Alec Rooney (@alrooney).
- pgBackRest commands can now be executed even if there are multiple pgBackRest Pods available in a Deployment, so long as there is only one "running" pgBackRest Pod. Reported by Rubin Simons (@rubin55).
- Ensure pgBackRest S3 Secrets can be upgraded from PostgreSQL Operator 4.3.
- Ensure pgBouncer Port is derived from the cluster's port, not the Operator configuration defaults.
- External WAL PVCs are only removed for the replica they are targeted for on a scaledown. Reported by (@dakine1111).
- Ensure `pgo show backup` will work regardless of state of any of the PostgreSQL clusters. This pulls the information directly from the pgBackRest Pod itself. Reported by (@saltenhub).
- When deleting a cluster with the `--keep-backups` flag, ensure that backups that were created via `--backup-type=pgdump` are retained.
- Return an error if a cluster is not found when using `pgo df` instead of timing out.
- The `operator` container will no longer panic if all Deployments are scaled to `0` without using the `pgo update cluster <mycluster> --shutdown` command.
- Ensure that sidecars (e.g. metrics collection, pgAdmin 4, pgBouncer) are deployable when using the PostGIS-enabled PostgreSQL image. Reported by  Jean-Denis Giguère (@jdenisgiguere).
- Allow for special characters in pgBackRest environmental variables. Reported by (@SockenSalat).
- Ensure password for the `pgbouncer` administrative user stays synchronized between an existing Kubernetes Secret and PostgreSQL should the pgBouncer be recreated.
- When uninstalling an instance of the Postgres Operator in a Kubernetes cluster that has multiple instances of the Postgres Operator, ensure that only the requested instance to be uninstalled is the one that's uninstalled.
- The logger no longer defaults to using a log level of `DEBUG`.
