---
title: "4.5.1"
date:
draft: false
weight: 69
---

Crunchy Data announces the release of the PostgreSQL Operator 4.5.1 on November 13, 2020.

The PostgreSQL Operator is released in conjunction with the [Crunchy Container Suite](https://github.com/CrunchyData/crunchy-containers/).

PostgreSQL Operator 4.5.1 release includes the following software versions upgrades:

- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) is now at versions 13.1, 12.5, 11.10, 10.15, 9.6.20, and 9.5.24.
- [Patroni](https://patroni.readthedocs.io/) is now at version 2.0.1.
- PL/Perl can now be used in the PostGIS-enabled containers.

## Changes

- Simplified creation of a PostgreSQL cluster from a `pgcluster` resource. A user no longer has to provide a pgBackRest repository Secret: the Postgres Operator will now automatically generate this.
- The exposed ports for Services associated with a cluster is now available from the `pgo show cluster` command.
- If the `pgo-config` ConfigMap is not created during the installation of the Postgres Operator, the Postgres Operator will generate one when it initializes.
- Providing a value for `pgo_admin_password` in the installer is now optional. If no value is provided, the password for the initial administrative user is randomly generated.
- Added an example for how to create a PostgreSQL cluster that uses S3 for pgBackRest backups via a custom resource.

## Fixes

- Fix readiness check for a standby leader. Previously, the standby leader would not report as ready, even though it was. Reported by Alec Rooney (@alrooney).
- Proper determination if a `pgcluster` custom resource creation has been processed by its corresponding Postgres Operator controller. This prevents the custom resource from being run by the creation logic multiple times.
- Prevent `initdb` (cluster reinitialization) from occurring if the PostgreSQL container cannot initialize while bootstrapping from an existing PGDATA directory.
- Fix issue with UBI 8 / CentOS 8 when running a pgBackRest bootstrap or restore job, where duplicate "repo types" could be set. Specifically, the ensures the name of the repo type is set via the `PGBACKREST_REPO1_TYPE` environmental variable. Reported by Alec Rooney (@alrooney).
- Ensure external WAL and Tablespace PVCs are fully recreated during a restore. Reported by (@aurelien43).
- Ensure `pgo show backup` will work regardless of state of any of the PostgreSQL clusters. This pulls the information directly from the pgBackRest Pod itself. Reported by (@saltenhub).
- Ensure that sidecars (e.g. metrics collection, pgAdmin 4, pgBouncer) are deployable when using the PostGIS-enabled PostgreSQL image. Reported by  Jean-Denis Giguère (@jdenisgiguere).
- Allow for special characters in pgBackRest environmental variables. Reported by (@SockenSalat).
- Ensure password for the `pgbouncer` administrative user stays synchronized between an existing Kubernetes Secret and PostgreSQL should the pgBouncer be recreated.
- When uninstalling an instance of the Postgres Operator in a Kubernetes cluster that has multiple instances of the Postgres Operator, ensure that only the requested instance to be uninstalled is the one that's uninstalled.
- The logger no longer defaults to using a log level of `DEBUG`.
