---
title: "4.5.2"
date:
draft: false
weight: 68
---

Crunchy Data announces the release of the PostgreSQL Operator 4.5.2 on February 23, 2021.

The PostgreSQL Operator is released in conjunction with the [Crunchy Container Suite](https://github.com/CrunchyData/crunchy-containers/).

PostgreSQL Operator 4.5.2 release includes the following software versions upgrades:

- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) is now at versions 13.2, 12.6, 11.11, 10.16, 9.6.21, and 9.5.25.
- pgnodemx now uses version 1.0.3

PostgreSQL Operator is tested against Kubernetes 1.17 - 1.20, OpenShift 3.11, OpenShift 4.4+, Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), Amazon EKS, Microsoft AKS, and VMware Enterprise PKS 1.3+, and works on other Kubernetes distributions as well.

## Changes

- `crunchy-postgres-exporter` now exposes several pgMonitor metrics related to `pg_stat_statements`.
- When using the `--restore-from` option on `pgo create cluster` to create a new PostgreSQL cluster, the cluster bootstrap Job is now automatically removed if it completes successfully.
- PostgreSQL JIT compilation is explicitly disabled on new cluster creation. This prevents a memory leak that has been observed on queries coming from the metrics exporter.
- The `--compress-type` flag is now supported for the backup options (`--backup-opts`) for pgBackRest backups with `pgo backup`. `none`, `gz`, `bz2`, and `lz4` are all supported. Presently `zst` is not supported.
- The post-cluster creation pgBackRest tasks, i.e. creating a stanza and creating an initial backup, are now deleted by the Operator should they complete successfully. Besides good housekeeping, this provides a workaround for an OpenShift 3.11 bug that was causing the Operator to continuously issue pgBackRest backups during an OpenShift refresh cycle. Reported by Paul Heinen (@v3nturetheworld).
- Add the `--no-prompt` flag to `pgo upgrade`. The mechanism to disable the prompt verification was already in place, but the flag was not exposed. Reported by (@devopsevd).
- Removes certain characters that causes issues in shell environments from consideration when using the random password generator, which is used to create default passwords or with `--rotate-password`.
- Allow for the `--link-map` attribute for a pgBackRest option, which can help with the restore of an existing cluster to a new cluster that adds an external WAL volume.

## Fixes

- Fix issue where `pgo test` would indicate every Service was a replica if the cluster name contained the word `replica` in it. Reported by Jose Joye (@jose-joye).
- Do not consider Evicted Pods as part of `pgo test`. This eliminates a behavior where faux primaries are considered as part of `pgo test`. Reported by Dennis Jacobfeuerborn (@dennisjac).
- Fix `pgo df` to not fail in the event it tries to execute a command within a dangling container from the bootstrap process when `pgo create cluster --restore-from` is used. Reported by Ignacio J.Ortega (@IJOL).
- `pgo df` will now only attempt to execute in running Pods, i.e. it does not attempt to run in evicted Pods. Reported by (@kseswar).
- Ensure the sync replication ConfigMap is removed when a cluster is deleted.
- Fix crash in shutdown logic when attempting to shut down a cluster where no primaries exist. Reported by Jeffrey den Drijver (@JeffreyDD).
- Fix syntax in recovery check command which could lead to failures when manually promoting a standby cluster. Reported by (@SockenSalat).
- Fix potential race condition that could lead to a crash in the Operator boot when an error is issued around loading the `pgo-config` ConfigMap. Reported by Aleksander Roszig (@AleksanderRoszig).
- Do not trigger a backup if a standby cluster fails over. Reported by (@aprilito1965).
- Fix issue with `pgo backup` where it was unable to take a backup from a new primary after `pgo failover` was called. Reported by (@mesobreira).
- On initialization, check that primary PostgreSQL Deployment is created before attempting to scale.
- Ensure `archive_mode` is forced to `on` when performing using the "restore in place" method. This ensures that the timeline is correctly incremented post-restore, which could manifest itself with various types of WAL archive failures.
- Ensure pgBouncer Secret is created when adding it to a standby cluster.
- Generally improvements to initialization of a standby cluster.
- Ensure proper label parsing based on Kubernetes rules and that it is consistently applied across all functionality that uses labels. Reported by José Joye (@jose-joye).
- Remove legacy `defaultMode` setting on the volume instructions for the pgBackRest repo Secret as the `readOnly` setting is used on the mount itself. Reported by (@szhang1).
- Only attempts to start scheduled backups in running pgBackRest repository Pods. Reported by Satria Sahputra (@satriashp).
- Allow for `Restart` API server permission to be explicitly set. Reported by Aleksander Roszig (@AleksanderRoszig).
- Update `pgo-target` permissions to match expectations for modern Kubernetes versions.
- Support the substitution for the limit on the number of queries to include the the `pg_stat_statements` support of pgMonitor. Defaults to 20, which is the pgMonitor upstream value. Contributed by Steven Siahetiong (@ssiahetiong).
- Major upgrade container now includes references for `pgnodemx`.
- During a major upgrade, ensure permissions are correct on the old data directory before running `pg_upgrade`.
- The metrics stack installer is fixed to work in environments that may not have connectivity to the Internet ("air gapped"). Reported by (@eliranw).
