---
title: "4.6.1"
date:
draft: false
weight: 59
---

Crunchy Data announces the release of the PostgreSQL Operator 4.6.1 on February 16, 2021.

The PostgreSQL Operator is released in conjunction with the [Crunchy Container Suite](https://github.com/CrunchyData/crunchy-containers/).

PostgreSQL Operator 4.6.1 release includes the following software versions upgrades:

- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) is now at versions 13.2, 12.6, 11.11, 10.16, and 9.6.21.

PostgreSQL Operator is tested against Kubernetes 1.17 - 1.20, OpenShift 3.11, OpenShift 4.4+, Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), Amazon EKS, Microsoft AKS, and VMware Enterprise PKS 1.3+, and works on other Kubernetes distributions as well.

# Changes
- The `--compress-type` flag is now supported for the backup options (`--backup-opts`) for pgBackRest backups with `pgo backup`. `none`, `gz`, `bz2`, and `lz4` are all supported. Presently `zst` is not supported.
- The post-cluster creation pgBackRest tasks, i.e. creating a stanza and creating an initial backup, are now deleted by the Operator should they complete successfully. Besides good housekeeping, this provides a workaround for an OpenShift 3.11 bug that was causing the Operator to continuously issue pgBackRest backups during an OpenShift refresh cycle. Reported by Paul Heinen (@v3nturetheworld).

# Fixes
- Only attempts to start scheduled backups in running pgBackRest repository Pods. Reported by Satria Sahputra (@satriashp).
- Support the substitution for the limit on the number of queries to include the the `pg_stat_statements` support of pgMonitor. Defaults to 20, which is the pgMonitor upstream value. Contributed by Steven Siahetiong (@ssiahetiong).
- On initialization, check that primary PostgreSQL Deployment is created before attempting to scale.
- Fix issue with `pgo backup` where it was unable to take a backup from a new primary after `pgo failover` was called. Reported by (@mesobreira).
- Fix crash when attempting to create a cluster via the REST API and no custom labels were set. Reported by Jeffrey den Drijver (@JeffreyDD)
- Ensure a pgBadger sidecar is not added to a PostgreSQL cluster after a `pgo upgrade` if it was not previously specified.
- Ensure superfluous labels are deleted during a `pgo upgrade`.
- Remove `/crunchyadm` from `unix_socket_directories` configuration during a `pgo upgrade`. Reported by Steven Siahetiong (@ssiahetiong).
- Ensure updated paths, i.e. rename to `/opt/crunchy`, are reflected in cluster ConfigMap when running `pgo upgrade`. Reported by Steven Siahetiong (@ssiahetiong).
- Ensure value from `--ccp-image-tag` is applied when running `pgo upgrade`.
- Ensure the pgBackRest repository sets ownership settings to the `pgbackrest` user, which, while not noticed under most operating environments, could manifest itself in different UID modes. Reported by Matt Russell (@mjrussell).
