---
title: "4.6.2"
date:
draft: false
weight: 58
---

Crunchy Data announces the release of the PostgreSQL Operator 4.6.2 on March 22, 2021.

The PostgreSQL Operator is released in conjunction with the [Crunchy Container Suite](https://github.com/CrunchyData/crunchy-containers/).

PostgreSQL Operator 4.6.2 release includes the following software versions upgrades:

- [Patroni](https://patroni.readthedocs.io/) is now at version 2.0.2.
- [pgBouncer](https://www.pgbouncer.org/) for CentOS 8 / UBI 8 is rebuilt to use the libc for its async DNS backend.

PostgreSQL Operator is tested against Kubernetes 1.17 - 1.20, OpenShift 3.11, OpenShift 4.4+, Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), Amazon EKS, Microsoft AKS, and VMware Enterprise PKS 1.3+, and works on other Kubernetes distributions as well.

## Changes

- The Postgres Operator and associated containers now contain defaults to use more locked down Pod and Container security context settings. These include setting `allowPrivilegeEscalation` to `false`  and explicitly stating that the container should not run as `root`. Many of these were already honored, if not defaulted, within the Postgres Operator ecosystem, but these changes make the settings explicit. This is all configuration: there are no breaking changes, and these configurations can be supported down to at least the 4.2 series.
- Revert setting "UsePAM" to "yes" by default as the bug fix in Docker that required that change was applied roughly one year ago.
- On Operator boot, Automatically detect when deployed in an OpenShift environment and set `DisableFSGroup` to `true`. This makes it easier to get started with the Postgres Operator in an OpenShift environment with the default security settings (i.e. `restricted`). If you use the `anyuid` Security Context Constraint, you will need to explicitly set `DisableFSGroup` to `false`.

## Fixes

- Ensure `archive_mode` is forced to `on` when performing using the "restore in place" method. This ensures that the timeline is correctly incremented post-restore, which could manifest itself with various types of WAL archive failures.
- Fix error when attempting to perform restores when using node affinity. Reported by (@gilfrade) and Cristian Chiru (@cristichiru).
- Fix issue where certain pgAdmin 4 functions did not work (e.g. taking a backup) due to `python` references in EL8 containers. Reported by (@douggutaby).
- Ensure a Postgres cluster shutdown can execute even if the `status` subresource of a `pgclusters.crunchydata.com` custom resource is missing.
- Ensure major upgrades via `crunchy-upgrade` support PostgreSQL 12 and PostgreSQL 13. Reported by (@lbartnicki92).
- Fix installed RBAC permissions via OLM. Reported by Tim Bo (@timbrd), with additional analysis from Aleksander Roszig (@AleksanderRoszig) and Eric Ace (@aceeric).
