---
title: "5.1.0"
date:
draft: false
weight: 850
---

Crunchy Data announces the release of [Crunchy Postgres for Kubernetes](https://www.crunchydata.com/products/crunchy-postgresql-for-kubernetes/) 5.1.0.

Crunchy Postgres for Kubernetes is powered by [PGO](https://github.com/CrunchyData/postgres-operator), the open source [Postgres Operator](https://github.com/CrunchyData/postgres-operator) from [Crunchy Data](https://www.crunchydata.com). [PGO](https://github.com/CrunchyData/postgres-operator) is released in conjunction with the [Crunchy Container Suite](https://github.com/CrunchyData/container-suite).

Crunchy Postgres for Kubernetes 5.1.0 includes the following software versions upgrades:

- [Patroni](https://patroni.readthedocs.io/) is now at 2.1.2.

Read more about how you can [get started]({{< relref "quickstart/_index.md" >}}) with Crunchy Postgres for Kubernetes. We recommend [forking the Postgres Operator examples](https://github.com/CrunchyData/postgres-operator-examples/fork) repo.

## Major Features

### Automatic Postgres Major Version Upgrades

A major advantage of running Postgres in Kubernetes with PGO is the ability to flexibly upgrade with limited downtime. To date, PGO v5 had only allowed this for bugfix / patch release of Postgres, as that only requires swapping container images.

A Postgres major version upgrade requires a bit more work, as the difference between two major versions (e.g. Postgres 12 vs. Postgres 14) may require the database to make changes to its filesystem, update its catalog, etc. There are many ways to facilitate this, including the use of the [`pg_upgrade`](https://blog.crunchydata.com/blog/how-to-perform-a-major-version-upgrade-using-pg_upgrade-in-postgresql) utility that comes with Postgres.

PGO v5.1 introduecs the ability to automatically upgrade a Postgres cluster between major versions. This leverages the built-in `pg_upgrade` behavior to automatically perform a Postgres upgrade. You can perform a major upgrade by modifying the `PostgresCluster` spec, e.g. to upgrade from Postgres 12 to 14:

```yaml
spec:
  upgrade:
    enabled: true
    fromPostgresVersion: 12
    image: registry.developers.crunchydata.com/crunchydata/crunchy-upgrade:ubi8-5.1.0-0
  image: registry.developers.crunchydata.com/crunchydata/crunchy-postgres:centos8-14.1-1
  postgresVersion: 14
```

For more information, please see the [Postgres major version upgrade]({{< relref "guides/major-postgres-version-upgrade.md" >}}) guide.

### pgAdmin 4 Integration

PGO v5.1 reintroduces the pgAdmin 4 integration from [PGO v4](https://access.crunchydata.com/documentation/postgres-operator/4.7.3/architecture/pgadmin4/). v5.1 adds the [`spec.userInterace.pgadmin`]({{< relref "references/crd.md" >}}#postgresclusterspecuserinterfacepgadmin) section to the `PostgresCluster` custom resourceto enable pgAdmin 4 integration for a Postgres cluster. Any users defined in `spec.users` are are synced with pgAdmin 4, allowing for a seamless management experience.

### Removal of SSH Requirement for Local Backups

Previous versions of PGO relied on the use of `ssh` to take backups and store archive files on Kubernetes-managed storage. Because Using `ssh` is discouraged in Kubernetes deployments, PGO v5.1 now uses TLS for securely transferring backups and archive files to Kubernetes-managed storage.

The upgrade for this is seamless and transparent if you are upgrading from PGO v5.0.4. If you are updating from a version of PGO v5 older than v5.0.4, the upgrade is seamless if you don't explicitly set the `postgrescluster.spec.image` or `postgrescluster.spec.backups.pgbackrest.image` fields or if you are using pgBackRest 2.36 or later. If neither of these conditions are true, you may experience a disruption to your backups and continuous archiving until you update your Postgres clusters to use a pgBackRest 2.36 [compatible container]({{< relref "references/components.md" >}}).

After upgrading to PGO v5.1, you can [update your Postgres clusters]({{< relref "tutorial/update-cluster.md" >}}) to use the new Postgres + pgBackRest images which will automatically roll out the move to using TLS.

## Features

- Set [Pod Disruption Budgets]({{< relref "architecture/high-availability.md" >}}#pod-disruption-budgets) (PDBs) for both Postgres and PgBouncer instances.
- Postgres configuration changes requiring a database restart are now automatically rolled out to all instances in the cluster.
- For rolling updates that do not require Pod recreation, e.g. applying a change that requires a database restart, PGO no longer recreates all of the database instance Pods. These types of changes are now applied more quickly.
- Support for [manual switchovers or failovers]({{< relref "tutorial/administrative-tasks.md">}}#changing-the-primary).
- Rotate PgBouncer TLS certificates without downtime.
- Add support for using Active Directory for securely authenticating with PostgreSQL using the GSSAPI.
- Support for using [AWS IAM roles with S3]({{< relref "tutorial/backups.md" >}}#using-an-aws-integrated-identity-provider-and-role) with backups when PGO is deployed in EKS.
- Introduction for automatically checking for updates for PGO and Postgres components. If an update is discovered, it is included in the PGO logs.

## Changes

- The Kubernetes Downward API is now automatically mounted to the `database` container in all Postgres instance Pods.
- pgBackRest dedicated repository host and restore Pods no longer mount a service account token since they do not require a service account.
- As a result of [a fix in pgBouncer v1.16](https://github.com/libusual/libusual/commit/ab960074cb7a), PGO no longer sets verbosity settings in the PgBouncer configuration to catch missing `%include` directives.  Users can increase verbosity in their own configuration files to maintain the previous behavior.
- The Postgres `archive_timeout` setting now defaults to 60 seconds (`60s`), which matches the behavior from PGO v4. If you do not require for WAL files to be generated once a minute (e.g. generally idle system where a window of data-loss is acceptable or a development system), you can set this to `0`:

```yaml
spec:
  patroni:
    dynamicConfiguration:
      postgresql:
        parameters:
          archive_timeout: 0
```

## Fixes

- The proper SecurityContext is now configured for all data migration Jobs.
- Reduce scope of automatic OpenShift environment detection. This looks specifically for the existence of the `SecurityContextConstraint` API.
- An external IP is no longer copied to the primary service (e.g. `hippo-primary`) when the `LoadBalancer` service type has been configured for PostgreSQL.

## Development

- PGO is now built using Go 1.17.
