# KUTTL

## Installing

Docs for install: https://kuttl.dev/docs/cli.html#setup-the-kuttl-kubectl-plugin

Options:
  - Download and install the binary
  - Install the `kubectl krew` [plugin manager](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/krew)
    and `kubectl krew install kuttl`

## Cheat sheet

### Suppressing Noisy Logs

KUTTL gives you the option to suppress events from the test logging output. To enable this feature
update the `kuttl` parameter when calling the `make` target

```
KUTTL_TEST='kuttl test --suppress-log=events' make check-kuttl
```

To suppress the events permanently, you can add the following to the KUTTL config (kuttl-test.yaml)
```
suppress:
- events
```

### Run test suite

Make sure that the operator is running in your Kubernetes environment and that your `kubeconfig` is
set up. Then run the make targets:

```
make generate-kuttl check-kuttl
```

### Running a single test

A single test is considered to be one directory under `kuttl/e2e-generated`, for example
`kuttl/e2e-generated/restore` is the `restore` test.

There are two ways to run a single test in isolation: 
- using an env var with the make target: `KUTTL_TEST='kuttl test --test <test-name>' make check-kuttl`
- using `kubectl kuttl --test` flag: `kubectl kuttl test testing/kuttl/e2e-generated --test <test-name>`

### Writing additional tests

To make it easier to read tests, we want to put our `assert.yaml`/`errors.yaml` files after the
files that create/update the objects for a step. To achieve this, infix an extra `-` between the
step number and the object/step name.

For example, if the `00` test step wants to create a cluster and then assert that the cluster is ready,
the files would be named

```yaml
00--cluster.yaml # note the extra `-` to ensure that it sorts above the following file
00-assert.yaml
```

### Generating tests

KUTTL is good at setting up K8s objects for testing, but does not have a native way to dynamically
change those K8s objects before applying them. That means that, if we wanted to write a cluster
connection test for PG 13 and PG 14, we would end up writing two nearly identical tests.

Rather than write those multiple tests, we are using `envsubst` to replace some common variables
and writing those files to the `testing/kuttl/e2e-generated*` directories.

These templated test files can be generated by setting some variables in the command line and
calling the `make generate-kuttl` target:

```console
KUTTL_PG_VERSION=13 KUTTL_POSTGIS_VERSION=3.0 make generate-kuttl
```

This will loop through the files under the `e2e` and `e2e-other` directories and create matching
files under the `e2e-generated` and `e2e-generated-other` directories that can be checked for
correctness before running the tests.

Please note, `make check-kuttl` does not run the `e2e-other` tests.  To run the `postgis-cluster`
test, you can use:

```
kubectl kuttl test testing/kuttl/e2e-generated-other/ --timeout=180 --test postgis-cluster`
```

To run the `gssapi` test, please see testing/kuttl/e2e-other/gssapi/README.md.

To prevent errors, we want to set defaults for all the environment variables used in the source
YAML files; so if you add a new test with a new variable, please update the Makefile with a
reasonable/preferred default.
